article 8
union renewable development platform and statistical transfers between member states
1.   member states may agree on the statistical transfer of a specified amount of energy from renewable sources from one member state to another member state. the transferred quantity shall be:
(a)
deducted from the amount of energy from renewable sources that is taken into account in calculating the renewable energy share of the member state making the transfer for the purposes of this directive; and
(b)
added to the amount of energy from renewable sources that is taken into account in calculating the renewable energy share of the member state accepting the transfer for the purposes of this directive.
2.   in order to facilitate the achievement of the union target set in article 3(1) of this directive and of each member state's contribution to that target in accordance with article 3(2) of this directive, and to facilitate statistical transfers in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article, the commission shall establish a union renewable development platform (‘urdp’). member states may, on a voluntary basis, submit to the urdp annual data on their national contributions to the union target or any benchmark set for monitoring progress in regulation (eu) 2018/1999, including the amount by which they expect to fall short of or exceed their contribution, and an indication of the price at which they would accept to transfer any excess production of energy from renewable sources from or to another member state. the price of those transfers shall be set on a case-by-case basis based on the urdp demand-and-supply matching mechanism.
3.   the commission shall ensure that the urdp is able to match the demand for and supply of the amounts of energy from renewable sources that are taken into account in the calculation of the renewable energy share of a member state based on prices or other criteria specified by the member state accepting the transfer.
the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 35 to supplement this directive by establishing the urdp and setting the conditions for the finalisation of transfers as referred to in paragraph 5 of this article.
4.   the arrangements referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 may have a duration of one or more calendar years. such arrangements shall be notified to the commission or finalised on the urdp not later than 12 months after the end of each year in which they have effect. the information sent to the commission shall include the quantity and price of the energy involved. for transfers finalised on the urdp, the parties involved and the information on the particular transfer shall be disclosed to the public.
5.   transfers shall become effective after all member states involved in the transfer have notified the transfer to the commission or after all clearing conditions are met on the urdp, as applicable.
