article 8
analytical basis of the integrated national energy and climate plans
1.   member states shall describe, in accordance with the structure and format specified in annex i, the current situation for each of the five dimensions of the energy union, including of the energy system and greenhouse gas emissions and removals at the time of submission of the integrated national energy and climate plan or on the basis of the latest available information. member states shall also set out and describe projections for each of the five dimensions of the energy union, for at least the duration of that plan, expected to result from existing policies and measures. member states shall endeavour to describe additional longer term perspectives for the five dimensions beyond the duration of the integrated national energy and climate plan, where relevant and possible.
2.   member states shall describe in their integrated national energy and climate plan their assessment, at national and, where applicable, regional level, of:
(a)
the impacts on the development of the energy system and greenhouse gas emissions and removals for the duration of the plan and for a period of ten years following the latest year covered by the plan, under the planned policies and measures or groups of measures, including a comparison with the projections based on existing policies and measures or groups of measures as referred to in paragraph 1;
(b)
the macroeconomic and, to the extent feasible, the health, environmental, skills and social impact of the planned policies and measures or groups of measures referred to in article 7 and further specified in annex i, for the first ten-year period at least until the year 2030, including a comparison with the projections based on existing policies and measures or groups of measures as referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. the methodology used to assess those impacts shall be made public;
(c)
interactions between existing policies and measures or groups of measures and planned policies and measures or groups of measures within a policy dimension and between existing policies and measures or groups of measures and planned policies and measures or groups of measures of different dimensions for the first ten-year period at least until the year 2030. projections concerning security of supply, infrastructure and market integration shall be linked to robust energy efficiency scenarios;
(d)
the manner in which existing policies and measures and planned policies and measures are to attract the investment necessary for their implementation.
3.   member states shall make available to the public comprehensive information concerning the assumptions, parameters and methodologies used for the final scenarios and projections, taking into account statistical restrictions, commercially sensitive data, and compliance with the data protection rules.
