article 33
union renewable energy financing mechanism
1.   by 1 january 2021, the commission shall establish the union renewable energy financing mechanism referred to in point (d) of article 32(3) to tender support for new renewable energy projects in the union with the aim of covering a gap in the indicative union trajectory. support may be provided, inter alia, in the form of a premium additional to market prices, and shall be allocated to projects bidding at the lowest cost or premium.
2.   without prejudice to paragraph 1 of this article, the financing mechanism shall contribute to the enabling framework pursuant to article 3(4) of directive (eu) 2018/2001 with the aim of supporting renewable energy deployment across the union irrespectively of a gap to the indicative union trajectory. to that end:
(a)
payments from member states referred to in article 32 may be complemented by additional sources, such as union funds, private sector contributions or additional payments by member states in order to contribute to the achievement of the union target;
(b)
the financing mechanism may, inter alia, provide support in the form of low-interest loans, grants, or a mix of both and may support, inter alia, joint projects between member states in accordance with article 9 of directive (eu) 2018/2001 and member states' participation in joint projects with third countries referred to in article 11 of that directive.
3.   member states shall retain the right to decide whether, and if so, under which conditions, they allow installations located on their territory to receive support from the financing mechanism.
4.   the commission, assisted by the energy union committee referred to in point (b) of article 44(1), may adopt implementing acts to set out the necessary provisions for the establishment and functioning of the financing mechanism, in particular:
(a)
the methodology for the calculation of the maximum level of the premium for each tender;
(b)
the tender design to be applied, including conditions for delivery and associated penalties;
(c)
the methodology for the calculation of the payments of member states and the resulting statistical benefits for the contributing member states;
(d)
minimum requirements for member states' participation, having regard to the need to ensure both continuity of the mechanism by means of a sufficient duration of the member state payment, as well as the maximum amount of flexibility for member states' participation;
(e)
provisions ensuring the participation and/or approval of hosting member states, and where necessary provisions relating to additional system cost charges.
those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article 44(6).
5.   every year, renewable energy generated by installations financed by the financing mechanism shall be statistically attributed to the participating member states, reflecting their relative payments. projects supported by this financing mechanism that are financed by other sources than member states payments shall not count towards member states' national contributions but towards the union binding target pursuant to article 3(1) of directive (eu) 2018/2001.
