article 17
reporting on the use of auctioning revenue and project credits
1.   by 31 july each year (year x), member states shall submit to the commission for the year x-1:
(a)
a detailed justification as referred to in article 6(2) of decision no 406/2009/ec;
(b)
information on the use of revenues during the year x-1 generated by the member state by auctioning allowances pursuant to article 10(1) of directive 2003/87/ec, including information on such revenue that has been used for one or more of the purposes specified in article 10(3) of that directive, or the equivalent in financial value of that revenue, and the actions taken pursuant to that article;
(c)
information on the use, as determined by the member state, of all revenue generated by the member state by auctioning aviation allowances pursuant to article 3d(1) or (2) of directive 2003/87/ec; that information shall be provided in accordance with article 3d(4) of that directive;
(d)
information referred to in point (b) of article 6(1) of decision no 406/2009/ec and information on how their purchasing policy enhances the achievement of an international agreement on climate change;
(e)
information regarding the application of article 11b(6) of directive 2003/87/ec as regards hydroelectric power production project activities with a generating capacity exceeding 20 mw.
2.   auctioning revenue not disbursed at the time a member state submits a report to the commission pursuant to this article shall be quantified and reported in reports for subsequent years.
3.   member states shall make available to the public the reports submitted to the commission pursuant to this article. the commission shall make aggregate union information available to the public in an easily accessible form.
4.   the commission shall adopt implementing acts to set out the structure, format and submission processes for member states’ reporting of information pursuant to this article. those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article 26(2).
