article 17
integrated national energy and climate progress reports
1.   without prejudice to article 26, by 15 march 2023, and every two years thereafter, each member state shall report to the commission on the status of implementation of its integrated national energy and climate plan by means of an integrated national energy and climate progress report covering all five dimensions of the energy union.
2.   the integrated national energy and climate progress report shall cover the following elements:
(a)
information on the progress accomplished towards reaching the objectives, targets and contributions set out in the integrated national energy and climate plan, and towards financing and implementing the policies and measures necessary to meet them, including a review of actual investment against initial investment assumptions;
(b)
where applicable, information on the progress in establishing the dialogue referred to in article 11;
(c)
the information referred to in articles 20 to 25 and, where appropriate, updates on policies and measures, in accordance with those articles;
(d)
information on adaptation in accordance with point (a)(1) of article 4;
(e)
as far as possible quantification of the impact of the policies and measures in the integrated national energy and climate plan on air quality and on emissions of air pollutants.
the union and the member states shall submit biennial reports in accordance with decision 2/cp.17 of the conference of the parties to the unfccc, and national communications in accordance with article 12 of the unfccc to the unfccc secretariat.
3.   the integrated national energy and climate progress report shall cover the information contained in the annual reports referred to in article 26(3) and the information on policies and measures and projections of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions by sources and removals by sinks contained in the reports referred to in article 18.
4.   the commission, assisted by the energy union committee referred to in point (b) of article 44(1), shall adopt implementing acts to set out the structure, format, technical details and process for the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article.
those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article 44(6).
5.   the frequency and scale of the information and updates referred to in point (c) of paragraph 2 shall be balanced against the need to ensure sufficient certainty for investors.
6.   where the commission has issued recommendations pursuant to article 32(1) or (2), the member state concerned shall include in its integrated national energy and climate progress report information on the policies and measures adopted, or intended to be adopted and implemented, to address those recommendations. where applicable, such information shall include a detailed timetable for implementation.
where the member state concerned decides not to address a recommendation or a substantial part thereof, it shall provide its reasoning.
7.   member states shall make available to the public the reports submitted to the commission pursuant to this article.
