article 3
integrated national energy and climate plans
1.   by 31 december 2019, and subsequently by 1 january 2029 and every ten years thereafter, each member state shall notify to the commission an integrated national energy and climate plan. the plans shall contain the elements set out in paragraph 2 of this article and in annex i. the first plan shall cover the period from 2021 to 2030, taking into account the longer term perspective. the subsequent plans shall cover the ten-year period immediately following the end of the period covered by the previous plan.
2.   the integrated national energy and climate plans shall consist of the following main sections:
(a)
an overview of the process followed for establishing the integrated national energy and climate plan consisting of an executive summary, a description of the public consultation and involvement of stakeholders and their results, and of regional cooperation with other member states in preparing the plan, as established in articles 10, 11 and 12 and in point 1 of section a of part i of annex i;
(b)
a description of national objectives, targets and contributions relating to the dimensions of the energy union, as set out in article 4 and annex i;
(c)
a description of the planned policies and measures in relation to the corresponding objectives, targets and contributions set out under point (b) as well as a general overview of the investment needed to meet the corresponding objectives, targets and contributions;
(d)
a description of the current situation of the five dimensions of the energy union, including with regard to the energy system and greenhouse gas emissions and removals as well as projections with regard to the objectives referred to in point (b) with already existing policies and measures;
(e)
where applicable, a description of the regulatory and non-regulatory barriers and hurdles to delivering the objectives, targets or contributions related to renewable energy and energy efficiency;
(f)
an assessment of the impacts of the planned policies and measures to meet the objectives referred to in point (b), including their consistency with the long-term greenhouse gas emission reduction objectives under the paris agreement and the long-term strategies as referred to in article 15;
(g)
a general assessment of the impacts of the planned policies and measures on competitiveness linked to the five dimensions of the energy union;
(h)
an annex, drawn up in accordance with the requirements and structure laid down in annex iii to this regulation, setting out the member state's methodologies and policy measures for achieving the energy savings requirement in accordance with article 7 of directive 2012/27/eu and annex v thereto.
3.   with regard to their integrated national energy and climate plans, member states shall:
(a)
limit administrative complexity and costs for all relevant stakeholders;
(b)
take into account the interlinkages between the five dimensions of the energy union, in particular the energy efficiency first principle;
(c)
use robust and consistent data and assumptions across the five dimensions where relevant;
(d)
assess the number of households in energy poverty taking into account the necessary domestic energy services needed to guarantee basic standards of living in the relevant national context, existing social policy and other relevant policies, as well as indicative commission guidance on relevant indicators for energy poverty.
in the event that a member state finds, pursuant to point (d) of the first subparagraph, that it has a significant number of households in energy poverty, on the basis of its assessment of verifiable data, it shall include in its plan a national indicative objective to reduce energy poverty. the member states concerned shall outline in their integrated national energy and climate plans, the policies and measures, which address energy poverty, if any, including social policy measures and other relevant national programmes.
4.   each member state shall make its integrated national energy and climate plan submitted to the commission pursuant to this article publicly available.
5.   the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 43 in order to amend points 2.1.1 and 3.1.1 of section a and points 4.1 and 4.2.1 of section b of part 1, and point 3 of part 2 of annex i, for the purpose of adapting them to amendments to the union energy and climate policy framework that are directly and specifically related to the union's contributions under the unfccc and the paris agreement.
