article 33
integration of electromobility into the electricity network
1.   without prejudice to directive 2014/94/eu of the european parliament and of the council (25), member states shall provide the necessary regulatory framework to facilitate the connection of publicly accessible and private recharging points to the distribution networks. member states shall ensure that distribution system operators cooperate on a non-discriminatory basis with any undertaking that owns, develops, operates or manages recharging points for electric vehicles, including with regard to connection to the grid.
2.   distribution system operators shall not own, develop, manage or operate recharging points for electric vehicles, except where distribution system operators own private recharging points solely for their own use.
3.   by way of derogation from paragraph 2, member states may allow distribution system operators to own, develop, manage or operate recharging points for electric vehicles, provided that all of the following conditions are fulfilled:
(a)
other parties, following an open, transparent and non-discriminatory tendering procedure that is subject to review and approval by the regulatory authority, have not been awarded a right to own, develop, manage or operate recharging points for electric vehicles, or could not deliver those services at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner;
(b)
the regulatory authority has carried out an ex ante review of the conditions of the tendering procedure under point (a) and has granted its approval;
(c)
the distribution system operator operates the recharging points on the basis of third-party access in accordance with article 6 and does not discriminate between system users or classes of system users, and in particular in favour of its related undertakings.
the regulatory authority may draw up guidelines or procurement clauses to help distribution system operators ensure a fair tendering procedure.
4.   where member states have implemented the conditions set out in paragraph 3, member states or their designated competent authorities shall perform, at regular intervals or at least every five years, a public consultation in order to re-assess the potential interest of other parties in owning, developing, operating or managing recharging points for electric vehicles. where the public consultation indicates that other parties are able to own, develop, operate or manage such points, member states shall ensure that distribution system operators' activities in this regard are phased-out, subject to the successful completion of the tendering procedure referred to in point (a) of paragraph 3. as part of the conditions of that procedure, regulatory authorities may allow the distribution system operator to recover the residual value of its investment in recharging infrastructure.
